.de EX		
.if \\n(.$>1 .tm troff: tmac.an: \\*(.F: extra arguments ignored
.sp \\n()Pu
.ne 8v
.ie \\n(.$ .nr EX 0\\$1n
.el .nr EX 0.5i
.in +\\n(EXu
.nf
.CW
..
.de EE		
.if \\n(.$>0 .tm troff: tmac.an: \\*(.F: arguments ignored
.R
.fi
.in -\\n(EXu
.sp \\n()Pu
..
.TH FM 5 "Grail"
.SH NAME
fm \- format for finite-state machines
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The standard description of a finite-state machine (usually called
a finite automaton) is as a 5-tuple:
.sp
.ce
\fI<{states}, {labels}, instruction-relation, start-state, {final-states}>\fR
.LP
In \fIGrail\fR, however, a machine is specified simply by listing
its instructions.  Thus:
.EX
1 a 3
2 b 2
3 b 3
2 c 4
.EE
is a list of instructions of the form \fI<source, label, target>\fR.
\fIGrail\fR uses special \fIpseudo-instructions\fR to indicate the
start and final states.  Thus:
.EX
(START) |- 0
0 a 2
(START) |- 1
1 a 3
2 b 2
3 b 3
2 c 4
3 c 5
4 d 4
5 d 5
4 -| (FINAL)
5 -| (FINAL)
.EE
is a complete description of a machine.
.LP
In \fIGrail\fR, all states are designated with positive integers, and all
labels are single alphabetic characters.  The special
pseudo-labels \f(CW|-\fR and \f(CW-|\fR are reserved for indicating the
pseudo-instructions that designate that a given state is a start or
final state.  The pseudo-labels may be thought of as `end markers' to be
matched in the input stream.  The string \f(CW(START)\fR may 
appear only as a source state, and the string \f(CW(FINAL)\fR may 
appear only as a target state, and each must be accompanied by the
appropriate psuedo-label (otherwise the specification of the machine
is in error).
.LP
\fIGrail\fR permits multiple start states and multiple final states.
A deterministic machine cannot have multiple start states.
.LP
The instructions in the machine need not be ordered.
.LP
\fIGrail\fR supports parameterizable machines.  If the alphabet
of your machine is not the ASCII characters, then the instruction
labels will be a textual represenatation of the objects that
make up the alphabet.
.LP
.SH AUTHORS
Darrell Raymond and Derick Wood, the Grail project
.SH "SEE ALSO"
re(5)
